docs/commandline.md, before:

Command-Line Expansion
======================

Any command you issue to Sequell is expanded before execution. For
instance, if user "jake" runs a command as follows:

    <jake > .echo User is: $user

Sequell will respond with: "User is: jake"

The same expansion is applied to LearnDB queries, and, in some cases,
to text supplied to commands, such as formats and titles for `!lg`.

The syntax used for command-line expansion is:

### Variables:

References such as `$user`, `$name`, etc. Any reference that Sequell does not
know how to expand will be canonicalized and echoed.

    <jake > .echo Hi $user => Hi jake
    <jake > .echo Hi $nobody => Hi ${nobody}

Empty variables may be replaced with alternative text using the
${x:-alt} form. The alternative text in ${x:-alt} is a full template,
and can reference other variables, functions, etc.

The variables (really bindings, as in names bound to values) that
Sequell recognizes depend on the context:

 - Any context:

   `$user`: The name of the requesting user.
   `$nick`: Same as $user.
   `$bot` : The name of the bot (Sequell)
   `$channel`: The channel on which Sequell received the triggering message.
               $channel will be 'msg' for private messages.

 - Listgame queries (!lg, etc.)

   `$name`: The name of the player (this may be a guess)
   `$target`: The first nick referenced in the query, possibly *
              !lg * fmt:"Name: $name, Target: $target"
              => Name: <whoever>, Target: *

### Subcommands:

A subcommand may be referenced as `$(<commandline>)`. For instance:

    .echo Characters played by *: $(!lg * s=char join:", ")
    => Characters played by *: SpEn, MiFi, ...

    .echo Hi $(.echo there) => Hi there

To see wins by characters that player 'foo' has played but not won:

    !lg * win char=$(!lg foo !won s=char join:"|")

Note: any command executing as a subcommand has no default title:

    .echo Chars: $(!lg . s=char) => MuPr, ...

An unknown subcommand will trigger an immediate error, unlike other
expansions, which will ignore unexpanded values.

### Functions:

Functions may be used as `$(<fn> ...)`.

   - `$(typeof <val>)`  returns the type of the given value

   - `$(bound? <name>)`
   
     Returns true if *name* is bound to a non-(void) value in the current scope.
     
   - `$(nvl <forms>)`

     Evaluates each form in a scope where an unbound name evaluates to the empty string.
     Unbound variables normally evaluate to strings with their names. *nvl* instead treats
     an unbound name as evaluating to the empty string:

         $x => ${x}
         ${x:-foo} => ${x:-foo}
         $(nvl $x) =>
         $(nvl ${x:-foo}) => foo

   - `$(with-nvl <nvl> <forms>)`

     Like *nvl*, but uses a user-supplied default value instead of defaulting to the empty
     string. Use with caution:
     
         $x => ${x}
         ${x:-foo} => ${x:-foo}
         $(with-nvl yak $x) => yak
         $(with-nvl yak ${x:-foo}) => yak

   - `$(join [<joiner>] <text>)`
         .echo $(join " and " a,b,c) => a and b and c

     The join function splits text on commas and joins it with the given
     join string. If omitted, the join string defaults to ", "

   - `$(split [<splitter>] <text>)`

     The split function splits text into an array on the given delimiter:

         .echo $(join $(split & a&b&c)) => a, b, c

   - `$(str-find <str> <text>)`; `$(str-find? <str> <text>)`
   
      `str-find` returns the index of <str> in <text>, indexes
      starting with 0, or -1 if <str> is not found in <text>. If
      merely checking for match/no-match, `str-find?` returns boolean
      true or false.

   - `$(re-find <regex> <text> [<start-index>])`
   
      Returns a match object if the regex matches the text.

      Match objects can be indexed with `elt`, or converted into a
      list of captures with `match-groups`. The indexes where the
      regex matched can be obtained using `match-begin` and `match-end`.

   - `$(match-groups <match>)`

     Returns a list of text groups captured by a regex search. The first
     item is always the full matching text of the regex.

   - `$(match-n <match> [<n>])`

     Returns the nth text group captured by a regex search. The zeroth
     item is the full matching text of the regex; other captures start
     from 1. If unspecified, *n* is assumed to be 0.

     If your pattern used named capturing groups (?P<name>...), you may
     use the name of the group instead of *n*.
     
   - `$(match-begin <match> [<group-index>])`

     Returns the start index in the original text where the regex
     matched. If *group-index* is specified, returns the start index
     where that particular capturing group matched.

   - `$(match-end <match> [<group-index>])`

     Returns the index of the character in the original text
     immediately after the last character of the regex match. If
     *group-index* is specified, returns the end index just after that
     particular capturing group.
     
   - `$(replace <string> [<replacement>] <text>)`

     The replace function replaces occurrences of `<string>` in `<text>` with
     `<replacement>`, the replacement defaulting to the empty string:

         .echo $(replace & ! a&b&c) => a!b!c
         .echo $(replace & a&b&c) => abc

   - `$(replace-n <n> <string> [<replacement>] <text>)`

     Like `replace`, but replaces only `n` occurrences. If `n` is -1,
     behaves exactly as `replace` does. If `n` is 0, returns the text
     unmodified.

   - `$(re-replace <regex> [<replacement>] <text>)`

     Like `replace`, but uses [RE2 regexps](https://code.google.com/p/re2/wiki/Syntax).

     `replacement` may use captures as variables; to protect against early
     expansion of the replacement, you must single-quote it:
     
         .echo $(re-replace '\b([a-z])' '$(upper $1)' "How now brown cow")
         => How Now Brown Cow

         .echo $(re-replace '\b\w(?P<letter>[a-z])\w\b' '$(upper $letter)' "How now brown cow")
         => O O brown O

     As an alternative to single-quoting the replacement, you may use `quote`:

         .echo $(re-replace '\b([a-z])' (quote (upper $1)) "How now brown cow")
         => How Now Brown Cow

         .echo $(re-replace '\b([a-z])' `(upper $1) "How now brown cow")
         => How Now Brown Cow

     As a final replacement form, you may pass a function instead of a
     replacement string. The function will be invoked for each match
     and must return a replacement string:

         $(re-replace "(y)(.*)(k)" (fn () "$1$(upper $2)$3") yak)
         => yAk

     A one-argument function may also be used, which will be called with a
     match object passed to it.
        
   - `$(re-replace-n <n> <regex> [<replacement>] <text)`

      Replaces only *n* matches; this is the regex equivalent of `replace-n`.

   - `$(upper <str>), $(lower <str>)`

     upper/lower-case text

   - `$(time)`

     Current time and date.

   - `$(utc <time>)`

     Converts *time* to UTC.

   - `$(ptime <text> [<format>])`

     Parses *text* to a time with the specified [*format*](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695299/functions/strptime.html)

     If *format* is omitted, the ISO 8601 date format (%FT%T%z) is assumed.

   - `$(interval-year [<x>])`, `$(interval-day [<x>])`,
     `$(interval-hour [<x>])`, `$(interval-minute [<x>])`,
     `$(interval-second [<x>])`

     Interprets <x> as an appropriate time interval, which can then be
     used in date arithmetic. A *year* is treated as a unit of 365 days, not
     a strict calendar year.

     For intervals of one day and larger, you may just use the appropriate
     numbers:

         .echo $(+ (time) 5)
         => <time 5 days in the future>

   - `$(ftime <time> [<format>])`

     Formats *time* to a string using the specified [*format*](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695299/functions/strptime.html)

     If *format* is omitted, the ISO 8601 date format (%FT%T%z) is assumed.

   - `$(length <string|array>)` String or array length
   - `$(sub <start> [<exclusive-end>] <string|array>)` Substring or array slice
   
   - `$(nth <index> <array>)` Index into array
   - `$(car <array>)` First element
   - `$(cdr <array>)` Array slice (identical to $(sub 1 <array>))
   - `$(rand n)` => random integers in [0,n)
   - `$(rand n m)` => random integers in [n,m]
   - Prefix operators: `+` `-` `/` `*` `=` `/=` `<` `>` `<=` `>=` `<=>` `**`
     `mod` `not`
   
          $(<=> 1 5) => -1
          $(<=> 1 1) => 0
          $(<=> 5 1) => 1
          
   - Type-casts: `str`, `float`, `int`

   - `$(list 1 2 3 4)` => [1, 2, 3, 4]
   - `$(cons 0 (list 1 2 3 4))` => [0, 1, 2, 3, 4]
         $(cons 0) => [0]
         $(cons) => []

   - `$(if <cond> <then> [<else>])`
   - `$(let (var1 value1 var2 value2 ...) <body-forms>)`
   
         $(let (x 2 y 5) (* $x $y)) => 10

     Note: (let) now assumes multiple body forms, so the $() for let bodies
     is no longer needed.

   - `$(set! <name> <value> [<name2> <value2> ...])`

     Rebinds the value of variable <names> to <values> and returns the
     last value.

     `set!` can only change variables bound by a `let` and function
     parameters.

   - `$(fn (par1 par2 . rest_parameter) body-forms)`
     Define a function

         $(let (x (fn (x) (+ $x 5))) (x 2)) => 7

     Things to note about functions definitions:

     Use `$foo` to reference the value of the variable foo in the function body:
     
         .echo $((fn (foo) $foo) 10) => 10
         .echo $((fn (foo) foo) 10) => foo

     The function body is *no longer treated as a template*:
     
         .echo $((fn (. args) (!lg $args fmt:"$name")) * xl>15)

         (fn (x) (* $x 2))

   - `$(apply <fn> arg1 arg2 ... arglist)`
     Apply function to the given argument list, with any individual args
     prefixed
     
         $(apply ${+} (list 1 2 3 4 5)) => 15
         $(apply ${+} 6 (list 1 2 3 4 5)) => 21

   - `$(range <low> <high> [<step>])` range of numbers from low to high
     inclusive, with step defaulting to 1.
     
         .echo $(range 1 10) => 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
         .echo $(range 1 10 2) => 1 3 5 7 9

   - `$(concat arg1 arg2...)`
     Concatenate strings or lists; do not mix argument types.

   - `$(map <fn> <list>)`
   - `$(filter <predicate-fn> <list>)`
   - `$(sort [<fn>] <list>)`

   - `$(hash [<key> <value> ...])` create a dictionary
   - `$(hash-put <key> <value> ... <hash>)` add keys and values to hash
   - `$(hash-keys <hash>)` returns a list of the keys in a hash
   - `$(elt <key> <hash>)` get value of <hash>[<key>]
   - `$hash[key]` same as `$(elt key $hash)`
   - `$(elts <key> ... <hash>)` get list of hash values for keys
            Note: `(reverse <hash>)` will invert the hash, converting keys
                  to values and vice-versa.

   - `$(sort <list>)`
     `$(sort <comparator> <list>)`
            `<comparator>` must be a fn (a, b) that returns -1, 0, 1 if
            a < b, a == b, a > b

   - `$(flatten [<depth>] <list>)` Flattens nested lists inside list.

   - `$(scope [<hash>])`

     Returns a hash-like lookup object that contains the names bound in
     the current scope. As an example:

         $(let (x 55) $(elt x (scope))) => 55

     Scopes behave like hashes, but you may not be able to inspect
     all locally bound names using (hash-keys (scope)).

     If given an optional hash object, any names in that hash override
     bindings in the current scope:

         $(let (x 55) $(elt x (scope (hash x 32)))) => 32

   - `$(binding <scope|hash> [<forms>])`

     Evaluates <forms> with the given scope or hash. Using a simple
     hash will completely hide all bindings in enclosing scopes. If you
     want to retain existing bindings, use a scope:
     
         $(binding (hash x 20) $x) => 20
         $(let (y 30) $(binding (hash x 20) $y)) => ${y} (unbound y)
         $(let (y 30) $(binding (scope (hash x 20)) $y)) => 30

   - `$(eval <string|quoted-form> [<scope>])`

     Evaluates the string or quoted form as a template, optionally using
     the supplied *scope*. If *scope* is omitted, defaults to the current
     scope.

         $(eval 5) => 5
         $(let (x 3) (eval '$(+ 5 7 $x)')) => 15
         $(let (x 3) (eval `(+ 5 7 $x)))  => 15
         $(let (x 3) (eval (quote (+ 5 7 $x))))  => 15

   - `$(quote <form>)`

     Returns <form> as a syntax object representing the template. Useful for
     eval, or regex replacements.

     As a convenience, `<form> behaves the same as (quote <form>).
     Sequell does not support splicing forms with , and ,@ yet.

   - `$(do <forms>)`

     Evaluates <forms> in sequence and returns the value of the last.

   - `$(void)`

     Returns the null value.

   - `$(try <form> [<catch>])`

     Evaluates and returns the value of `<form>`. If evaluating
     `<form>` raised an error, evaluates and returns the value of
     `<catch>`, or `(void)` if no *catch* form was provided. In the
     `<catch>` form, `$err!` will be bound to the error that was
     caught.

   - `$(colour [<fg> [<bg]])`

     Returns an [mIRC colour code](http://www.mirc.com/colors.html).
     *fg* and *bg* may be between 0 and 15, inclusive, or one of these
     color names: white, black, blue, green, red, brown, magenta,
     orange, yellow, lightgreen, cyan, lightcyan, lightblue, lightmagenta,
     grey, lightgrey.

     If *fg* and *bg* are both omitted, returns the IRC colour reset
     code.

   - `$(coloured <fg> [<bg>] <text>)`

     Wraps *text* in an IRC colour + reset sequence.
     

Unknown functions will be ignored:

     .echo $(foobar) => $(foobar)

### LearnDB access functions
   
   - `$(ldb <term> [<index>])`

     Retrieve the definition for `<term>[<index>]`. If the definition is
     a LearnDB redirect (see {foo}) or a LearnDB command invocation (do {cmd}),
     the redirect is followed, or the command is invoked. Definitions are
     automatically evaluated as templates.

     Returns a LearnDB entry object that converts to a string with
     (str <obj>) as:

         <term>[<index>/<count>] <definition>

     The definition may be examined as:

       1. `$(ldbent-term <e>)` => the term (after following redirects, etc.)
       2. `$(ldbent-index <e>)` => the index
       3. `$(ldbent-term-size <e>)` => the number of entries for the term
       4. `$(ldbent-text <e>)` => the definition.

   - `$(ldb-lookup "string query")`

     Takes a string query in the form `"<term>[<num>]"` and returns
     the definition. Otherwise identical in behavior to `ldb`.

   - `$(ldb-similar-terms "term" [<edit-distance>])`

     Returns a list of terms most similar to `term`, within the given
     Levenshtein distance (defaults to 2). This is not an exhaustive
     list of terms within the edit distance, but the set of terms at
     the smallest possible edit distance from the given term.

   - `$(ldb-search-terms <pattern>)`

     Returns a list of term (list of strings) that match the supplied pattern.

   - `$(ldb-search-entries <pattern>)`

     Returns a list of entries (list of LearnDB entry objects) that match
     the supplied pattern.

   - `$(ldb-redirect-term? <term>)`

     Returns true if the given term has only a single entry, and that entry
     points at another entry with `see {other}` or `see {other[1]}`.

     *term* may have an optional numeric index as "term[2]", etc. The
     numeric index will be stripped before checking if *term* is a redirect.
   
   - `$(ldb-canonical-term <term>)`

     Given a term string, returns the term string if the ldb-redirect-term?
     returns false, or follows the redirect and returns the first redirected
     term for which ldb-redirect-term? is false. Returns *term* unchanged if
     it points into a redirect loop.

     *term* may have an optional numeric index; the index will be preserved
     in the return value.

   - `$(ldb-at <term> [<index>])`
   
     Retrieve the definition for `<term>[<index>]`, or the first
     definition if *index* is unspecified. The definition returned is
     a LearnDB entry object, but redirects and do { } commands are
     ignored, and the string is not treated as a template to be
     expanded, i.e. this is a raw LearnDB lookup.

   - `$(ldb-defs <term>)`

     Retrieves the list of definitions for `<term>`. Each definition
     is returned as a simple string, not as a LearnDB entry object.

   - `$(ldb-size <term>)`

     Returns the number of definitions for *term*, ignoring redirects.

   - `$(ldb-add <term> [<index>] <definition>)`

     Adds *definition* to *term*. If *index* is specified, the new definition
     will be inserted at that index. If no *index* is specified, the new
     definition will be appended as the last definition. An *index* of -1
     produces the same append behaviour as not specifying the index.

     Raises an error if used in PM.

   - `$(ldb-set! <term> <index> <definition>)`

     Replaces the existing definition at `term[index]` with the new
     definition. If no definition exists at term[index], does nothing.

     Raises an error if used in PM.
     
   - `$(ldb-rm! <term> <index>)`

     Deletes the definition at `term[index]`, or the whole term and all
     its definitions if an index of '*' is specified. Use with caution,
     there are no confirmation prompts.

     Raises an error if used in PM.

Quoting and multiple command-line expansions:
---------------------------------------------

!lg can use templates to format its output. These templates are also
expanded using the commandline rules described above. To protect templates
from immediate evaluation, wrap them in single quotes.

For instance, given the command

    !lg * win char=$(.echo HESk) stub:'$(!hs * HESk)'

The first expansion (before !lg runs):

    !lg * win char=HESk stub:'$(!hs * HESk)'

If !lg runs and finds no results, it will then evaluate the stub, viz.

    !hs * HESK


Suppressing command-line expansion:
-----------------------------------

Single-quoted strings are not expanded by default. This can be
used to defer costly subcommands until they're actually needed:

     !lg * stub:'No results, but look: $(!expensive-query)'

Although the default command-line expansion does not expand
single-quoted strings, !lg will still expand any string used as a
format, title, or stub.

Defining new functions
----------------------

Use !fn to define new functions:

    !fn double (x) $(* $x 2)
    .echo $(double 200) => 400

Functions may be recursive, but recursion depth is limited. !fn -ls
lists user-defined functions and !fn -rm deletes a function.

Commit message:

Add exec, suppress LearnDB search with empty pattern.

docs/commandline.md, after:

Command-Line Expansion
======================

Any command you issue to Sequell is expanded before execution. For
instance, if user "jake" runs a command as follows:

    <jake > .echo User is: $user

Sequell will respond with: "User is: jake"

The same expansion is applied to LearnDB queries, and, in some cases,
to text supplied to commands, such as formats and titles for `!lg`.

The syntax used for command-line expansion is:

### Variables:

References such as `$user`, `$name`, etc. Any reference that Sequell does not
know how to expand will be canonicalized and echoed.

    <jake > .echo Hi $user => Hi jake
    <jake > .echo Hi $nobody => Hi ${nobody}

Empty variables may be replaced with alternative text using the
${x:-alt} form. The alternative text in ${x:-alt} is a full template,
and can reference other variables, functions, etc.

The variables (really bindings, as in names bound to values) that
Sequell recognizes depend on the context:

 - Any context:

   `$user`: The name of the requesting user.
   `$nick`: Same as $user.
   `$bot` : The name of the bot (Sequell)
   `$channel`: The channel on which Sequell received the triggering message.
               $channel will be 'msg' for private messages.

 - Listgame queries (!lg, etc.)

   `$name`: The name of the player (this may be a guess)
   `$target`: The first nick referenced in the query, possibly *
              !lg * fmt:"Name: $name, Target: $target"
              => Name: <whoever>, Target: *

### Subcommands:

A subcommand may be referenced as `$(<commandline>)`. For instance:

    .echo Characters played by *: $(!lg * s=char join:", ")
    => Characters played by *: SpEn, MiFi, ...

    .echo Hi $(.echo there) => Hi there

To see wins by characters that player 'foo' has played but not won:

    !lg * win char=$(!lg foo !won s=char join:"|")

Note: any command executing as a subcommand has no default title:

    .echo Chars: $(!lg . s=char) => MuPr, ...

An unknown subcommand will trigger an immediate error, unlike other
expansions, which will ignore unexpanded values.

### Functions:

Functions may be used as `$(<fn> ...)`.

   - `$(typeof <val>)`  returns the type of the given value

   - `$(bound? <name>)`
   
     Returns true if *name* is bound to a non-(void) value in the current scope.
     
   - `$(nvl <forms>)`

     Evaluates each form in a scope where an unbound name evaluates to the empty string.
     Unbound variables normally evaluate to strings with their names. *nvl* instead treats
     an unbound name as evaluating to the empty string:

         $x => ${x}
         ${x:-foo} => ${x:-foo}
         $(nvl $x) =>
         $(nvl ${x:-foo}) => foo

   - `$(with-nvl <nvl> <forms>)`

     Like *nvl*, but uses a user-supplied default value instead of defaulting to the empty
     string. Use with caution:
     
         $x => ${x}
         ${x:-foo} => ${x:-foo}
         $(with-nvl yak $x) => yak
         $(with-nvl yak ${x:-foo}) => yak

   - `$(join [<joiner>] <text>)`
         .echo $(join " and " a,b,c) => a and b and c

     The join function splits text on commas and joins it with the given
     join string. If omitted, the join string defaults to ", "

   - `$(split [<splitter>] <text>)`

     The split function splits text into an array on the given delimiter:

         .echo $(join $(split & a&b&c)) => a, b, c

   - `$(str-find <str> <text>)`; `$(str-find? <str> <text>)`
   
      `str-find` returns the index of <str> in <text>, indexes
      starting with 0, or -1 if <str> is not found in <text>. If
      merely checking for match/no-match, `str-find?` returns boolean
      true or false.

   - `$(re-find <regex> <text> [<start-index>])`
   
      Returns a match object if the regex matches the text.

      Match objects can be indexed with `elt`, or converted into a
      list of captures with `match-groups`. The indexes where the
      regex matched can be obtained using `match-begin` and `match-end`.

   - `$(match-groups <match>)`

     Returns a list of text groups captured by a regex search. The first
     item is always the full matching text of the regex.

   - `$(match-n <match> [<n>])`

     Returns the nth text group captured by a regex search. The zeroth
     item is the full matching text of the regex; other captures start
     from 1. If unspecified, *n* is assumed to be 0.

     If your pattern used named capturing groups (?P<name>...), you may
     use the name of the group instead of *n*.
     
   - `$(match-begin <match> [<group-index>])`

     Returns the start index in the original text where the regex
     matched. If *group-index* is specified, returns the start index
     where that particular capturing group matched.

   - `$(match-end <match> [<group-index>])`

     Returns the index of the character in the original text
     immediately after the last character of the regex match. If
     *group-index* is specified, returns the end index just after that
     particular capturing group.
     
   - `$(replace <string> [<replacement>] <text>)`

     The replace function replaces occurrences of `<string>` in `<text>` with
     `<replacement>`, the replacement defaulting to the empty string:

         .echo $(replace & ! a&b&c) => a!b!c
         .echo $(replace & a&b&c) => abc

   - `$(replace-n <n> <string> [<replacement>] <text>)`

     Like `replace`, but replaces only `n` occurrences. If `n` is -1,
     behaves exactly as `replace` does. If `n` is 0, returns the text
     unmodified.

   - `$(re-replace <regex> [<replacement>] <text>)`

     Like `replace`, but uses [RE2 regexps](https://code.google.com/p/re2/wiki/Syntax).

     `replacement` may use captures as variables; to protect against early
     expansion of the replacement, you must single-quote it:
     
         .echo $(re-replace '\b([a-z])' '$(upper $1)' "How now brown cow")
         => How Now Brown Cow

         .echo $(re-replace '\b\w(?P<letter>[a-z])\w\b' '$(upper $letter)' "How now brown cow")
         => O O brown O

     As an alternative to single-quoting the replacement, you may use `quote`:

         .echo $(re-replace '\b([a-z])' (quote (upper $1)) "How now brown cow")
         => How Now Brown Cow

         .echo $(re-replace '\b([a-z])' `(upper $1) "How now brown cow")
         => How Now Brown Cow

     As a final replacement form, you may pass a function instead of a
     replacement string. The function will be invoked for each match
     and must return a replacement string:

         $(re-replace "(y)(.*)(k)" (fn () "$1$(upper $2)$3") yak)
         => yAk

     A one-argument function may also be used, which will be called with a
     match object passed to it.
        
   - `$(re-replace-n <n> <regex> [<replacement>] <text)`

      Replaces only *n* matches; this is the regex equivalent of `replace-n`.

   - `$(upper <str>), $(lower <str>)`

     upper/lower-case text

   - `$(time)`

     Current time and date.

   - `$(utc <time>)`

     Converts *time* to UTC.

   - `$(ptime <text> [<format>])`

     Parses *text* to a time with the specified [*format*](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695299/functions/strptime.html)

     If *format* is omitted, the ISO 8601 date format (%FT%T%z) is assumed.

   - `$(interval-year [<x>])`, `$(interval-day [<x>])`,
     `$(interval-hour [<x>])`, `$(interval-minute [<x>])`,
     `$(interval-second [<x>])`

     Interprets <x> as an appropriate time interval, which can then be
     used in date arithmetic. A *year* is treated as a unit of 365 days, not
     a strict calendar year.

     For intervals of one day and larger, you may just use the appropriate
     numbers:

         .echo $(+ (time) 5)
         => <time 5 days in the future>

   - `$(ftime <time> [<format>])`

     Formats *time* to a string using the specified [*format*](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695299/functions/strptime.html)

     If *format* is omitted, the ISO 8601 date format (%FT%T%z) is assumed.

   - `$(length <string|array>)` String or array length
   - `$(sub <start> [<exclusive-end>] <string|array>)` Substring or array slice
   
   - `$(nth <index> <array>)` Index into array
   - `$(car <array>)` First element
   - `$(cdr <array>)` Array slice (identical to $(sub 1 <array>))
   - `$(rand n)` => random integers in [0,n)
   - `$(rand n m)` => random integers in [n,m]
   - Prefix operators: `+` `-` `/` `*` `=` `/=` `<` `>` `<=` `>=` `<=>` `**`
     `mod` `not`
   
          $(<=> 1 5) => -1
          $(<=> 1 1) => 0
          $(<=> 5 1) => 1
          
   - Type-casts: `str`, `float`, `int`

   - `$(list 1 2 3 4)` => [1, 2, 3, 4]
   - `$(cons 0 (list 1 2 3 4))` => [0, 1, 2, 3, 4]
         $(cons 0) => [0]
         $(cons) => []

   - `$(if <cond> <then> [<else>])`
   - `$(let (var1 value1 var2 value2 ...) <body-forms>)`
   
         $(let (x 2 y 5) (* $x $y)) => 10

     Note: (let) now assumes multiple body forms, so the $() for let bodies
     is no longer needed.

   - `$(set! <name> <value> [<name2> <value2> ...])`

     Rebinds the value of variable <names> to <values> and returns the
     last value.

     `set!` can only change variables bound by a `let` and function
     parameters.

   - `$(fn (par1 par2 . rest_parameter) body-forms)`
     Define a function

         $(let (x (fn (x) (+ $x 5))) (x 2)) => 7

     Things to note about functions definitions:

     Use `$foo` to reference the value of the variable foo in the function body:
     
         .echo $((fn (foo) $foo) 10) => 10
         .echo $((fn (foo) foo) 10) => foo

     The function body is *no longer treated as a template*:
     
         .echo $((fn (. args) (!lg $args fmt:"$name")) * xl>15)

         (fn (x) (* $x 2))

   - `$(apply <fn> arg1 arg2 ... arglist)`
     Apply function to the given argument list, with any individual args
     prefixed
     
         $(apply ${+} (list 1 2 3 4 5)) => 15
         $(apply ${+} 6 (list 1 2 3 4 5)) => 21

   - `$(range <low> <high> [<step>])` range of numbers from low to high
     inclusive, with step defaulting to 1.
     
         .echo $(range 1 10) => 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
         .echo $(range 1 10 2) => 1 3 5 7 9

   - `$(concat arg1 arg2...)`
     Concatenate strings or lists; do not mix argument types.

   - `$(map <fn> <list>)`
   - `$(filter <predicate-fn> <list>)`
   - `$(sort [<fn>] <list>)`

   - `$(hash [<key> <value> ...])` create a dictionary
   - `$(hash-put <key> <value> ... <hash>)` add keys and values to hash
   - `$(hash-keys <hash>)` returns a list of the keys in a hash
   - `$(elt <key> <hash>)` get value of <hash>[<key>]
   - `$hash[key]` same as `$(elt key $hash)`
   - `$(elts <key> ... <hash>)` get list of hash values for keys
            Note: `(reverse <hash>)` will invert the hash, converting keys
                  to values and vice-versa.

   - `$(sort <list>)`
     `$(sort <comparator> <list>)`
            `<comparator>` must be a fn (a, b) that returns -1, 0, 1 if
            a < b, a == b, a > b

   - `$(flatten [<depth>] <list>)` Flattens nested lists inside list.

   - `$(scope [<hash>])`

     Returns a hash-like lookup object that contains the names bound in
     the current scope. As an example:

         $(let (x 55) $(elt x (scope))) => 55

     Scopes behave like hashes, but you may not be able to inspect
     all locally bound names using (hash-keys (scope)).

     If given an optional hash object, any names in that hash override
     bindings in the current scope:

         $(let (x 55) $(elt x (scope (hash x 32)))) => 32

   - `$(binding <scope|hash> [<forms>])`

     Evaluates <forms> with the given scope or hash. Using a simple
     hash will completely hide all bindings in enclosing scopes. If you
     want to retain existing bindings, use a scope:
     
         $(binding (hash x 20) $x) => 20
         $(let (y 30) $(binding (hash x 20) $y)) => ${y} (unbound y)
         $(let (y 30) $(binding (scope (hash x 20)) $y)) => 30

   - `$(eval <string|quoted-form> [<scope>])`

     Evaluates the string or quoted form as a template, optionally using
     the supplied *scope*. If *scope* is omitted, defaults to the current
     scope.

         $(eval 5) => 5
         $(let (x 3) (eval '$(+ 5 7 $x)')) => 15
         $(let (x 3) (eval `(+ 5 7 $x)))  => 15
         $(let (x 3) (eval (quote (+ 5 7 $x))))  => 15

   - `$(exec "commandline")`

     Executes the commandline as a sub-command. Variables in the command-line
     are not expanded before evaluation; you may eval the commandline first
     if you want to expand variables.

     Note: Evaluating !lg as a sub-command produces raw xlog output when
     querying individual games.

   - `$(quote <form>)`

     Returns <form> as a syntax object representing the template. Useful for
     eval, or regex replacements.

     As a convenience, `<form> behaves the same as (quote <form>).
     Sequell does not support splicing forms with , and ,@ yet.

   - `$(do <forms>)`

     Evaluates <forms> in sequence and returns the value of the last.

   - `$(void)`

     Returns the null value.

   - `$(try <form> [<catch>])`

     Evaluates and returns the value of `<form>`. If evaluating
     `<form>` raised an error, evaluates and returns the value of
     `<catch>`, or `(void)` if no *catch* form was provided. In the
     `<catch>` form, `$err!` will be bound to the error that was
     caught.

   - `$(colour [<fg> [<bg]])`

     Returns an [mIRC colour code](http://www.mirc.com/colors.html).
     *fg* and *bg* may be between 0 and 15, inclusive, or one of these
     color names: white, black, blue, green, red, brown, magenta,
     orange, yellow, lightgreen, cyan, lightcyan, lightblue, lightmagenta,
     grey, lightgrey.

     If *fg* and *bg* are both omitted, returns the IRC colour reset
     code.

   - `$(coloured <fg> [<bg>] <text>)`

     Wraps *text* in an IRC colour + reset sequence.
     

Unknown functions will be ignored:

     .echo $(foobar) => $(foobar)

### LearnDB access functions
   
   - `$(ldb <term> [<index>])`

     Retrieve the definition for `<term>[<index>]`. If the definition is
     a LearnDB redirect (see {foo}) or a LearnDB command invocation (do {cmd}),
     the redirect is followed, or the command is invoked. Definitions are
     automatically evaluated as templates.

     Returns a LearnDB entry object that converts to a string with
     (str <obj>) as:

         <term>[<index>/<count>] <definition>

     The definition may be examined as:

       1. `$(ldbent-term <e>)` => the term (after following redirects, etc.)
       2. `$(ldbent-index <e>)` => the index
       3. `$(ldbent-term-size <e>)` => the number of entries for the term
       4. `$(ldbent-text <e>)` => the definition.

   - `$(ldb-lookup "string query")`

     Takes a string query in the form `"<term>[<num>]"` and returns
     the definition. Otherwise identical in behavior to `ldb`.

   - `$(ldb-similar-terms "term" [<edit-distance>])`

     Returns a list of terms most similar to `term`, within the given
     Levenshtein distance (defaults to 2). This is not an exhaustive
     list of terms within the edit distance, but the set of terms at
     the smallest possible edit distance from the given term.

   - `$(ldb-search-terms <pattern>)`

     Returns a list of term (list of strings) that match the supplied pattern.

   - `$(ldb-search-entries <pattern>)`

     Returns a list of entries (list of LearnDB entry objects) that match
     the supplied pattern.

   - `$(ldb-redirect-term? <term>)`

     Returns true if the given term has only a single entry, and that entry
     points at another entry with `see {other}` or `see {other[1]}`.

     *term* may have an optional numeric index as "term[2]", etc. The
     numeric index will be stripped before checking if *term* is a redirect.
   
   - `$(ldb-canonical-term <term>)`

     Given a term string, returns the term string if the ldb-redirect-term?
     returns false, or follows the redirect and returns the first redirected
     term for which ldb-redirect-term? is false. Returns *term* unchanged if
     it points into a redirect loop.

     *term* may have an optional numeric index; the index will be preserved
     in the return value.

   - `$(ldb-at <term> [<index>])`
   
     Retrieve the definition for `<term>[<index>]`, or the first
     definition if *index* is unspecified. The definition returned is
     a LearnDB entry object, but redirects and do { } commands are
     ignored, and the string is not treated as a template to be
     expanded, i.e. this is a raw LearnDB lookup.

   - `$(ldb-defs <term>)`

     Retrieves the list of definitions for `<term>`. Each definition
     is returned as a simple string, not as a LearnDB entry object.

   - `$(ldb-size <term>)`

     Returns the number of definitions for *term*, ignoring redirects.

   - `$(ldb-add <term> [<index>] <definition>)`

     Adds *definition* to *term*. If *index* is specified, the new definition
     will be inserted at that index. If no *index* is specified, the new
     definition will be appended as the last definition. An *index* of -1
     produces the same append behaviour as not specifying the index.

     Raises an error if used in PM.

   - `$(ldb-set! <term> <index> <definition>)`

     Replaces the existing definition at `term[index]` with the new
     definition. If no definition exists at term[index], does nothing.

     Raises an error if used in PM.
     
   - `$(ldb-rm! <term> <index>)`

     Deletes the definition at `term[index]`, or the whole term and all
     its definitions if an index of '*' is specified. Use with caution,
     there are no confirmation prompts.

     Raises an error if used in PM.

Quoting and multiple command-line expansions:
---------------------------------------------

!lg can use templates to format its output. These templates are also
expanded using the commandline rules described above. To protect templates
from immediate evaluation, wrap them in single quotes.

For instance, given the command

    !lg * win char=$(.echo HESk) stub:'$(!hs * HESk)'

The first expansion (before !lg runs):

    !lg * win char=HESk stub:'$(!hs * HESk)'

If !lg runs and finds no results, it will then evaluate the stub, viz.

    !hs * HESK


Suppressing command-line expansion:
-----------------------------------

Single-quoted strings are not expanded by default. This can be
used to defer costly subcommands until they're actually needed:

     !lg * stub:'No results, but look: $(!expensive-query)'

Although the default command-line expansion does not expand
single-quoted strings, !lg will still expand any string used as a
format, title, or stub.

Defining new functions
----------------------

Use !fn to define new functions:

    !fn double (x) $(* $x 2)
    .echo $(double 200) => 400

Functions may be recursive, but recursion depth is limited. !fn -ls
lists user-defined functions and !fn -rm deletes a function.
